Fix CSV generators and run `joke` sample in CI (#238)
quarkiverse/quarkus-operator-sdk: samples/joke/README.md

- Connect to your cluster of choice using `kubectl/oc`, select the appropriate namespace/project.
  The operator will automatically connect to that cluster/namespace combination when started.
- Run `mvn install` on the parent directory to build the project locally. This will automatically generate several resources for
  you, in particular the CRDs associated with the custom resources we will be dealing with. These

>   CRDs are generated in `target/manifests/` and come in `v1` version which correspond to the versions of the CRD spec. We recommend you use

Author: Can you point out a link or more information about how to generate extra versions if needed?

>   CRDs are generated in `target/manifests/` and come in `v1` version which correspond to the versions of the CRD spec. We recommend you use

Reviewer: This is controlled by the `quarkus.operator-sdk.crd.versions` property, which you can set to a list of comma-separated CRD spec versions i.e. `quarkus.operator-sdk.crd.versions=v1beta1, v1`.

>   CRDs are generated in `target/manifests/` and come in `v1` version which correspond to the versions of the CRD spec. We recommend you use

Author: Updated

0. Requirements

Make sure you have installed the [opm](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry) command tool and have connected to a Kubernetes cluster with the OLM installed.

2. Generate the Operator image and bundle manifests

This example uses the [Quarkus Jib container image](https://quarkus.io/guides/container-image#jib) extension to build the Operator image. 
Also, the Quarkus Operator SDK provides the `quarkus-operator-sdk-csv-generator` extension that generates the Operator bundle manifests at `target/manifests`.
So, you simply need to run the next Maven command to build and push the operator image, and also to generate the bundle manifests:

```shell
mvn clean package -Dquarkus.container-image.build=true \
    -Dquarkus.container-image.push=true \
    -Dquarkus.container-image.registry=<your container registry. Example: quay.io> \
    -Dquarkus.container-image.group=<your container registry namespace> \
    -Dquarkus.kubernetes.namespace=<the kubernetes namespace where you will deploy the operator>
```

> | If you're using an insecure container registry, you'd also need to append the next property to the Maven command `-Dquarkus.container-image.insecure=true`.

Author: Changed

2. Build the Operator Bundle image

An Operator Bundle is a container image that stores Kubernetes manifests and metadata associated with an operator. You can find more information about this in [here](https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/tasks/creating-operator-bundle/). 
In the previous step, we generated the manifests at `target/manifests`, but we still need to generate the `metadata/annotations.yaml` file and the final Operator Bundle image. For doing this, we will use the [opm](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry) utility:

```shell
opm alpha bundle generate \
    --directory target/manifests \
    --package <The name of the package that bundle image belongs to> \ 
    --channels <The list of channels that bundle image belongs to> \
    --default <The default channel for the bundle image>
```

> For example, if we want to name the package `joke` and use the `alpha` channels, the command would look like as `opm alpha bundle generate --directory target/manifests --package joke --channels alpha --default alpha`.

Author: I've added a link about these two concepts.

The above command will generate a `bundle.Dockerfile` Dockerfile file that you will use to build and push the final Operator Bundle image to your container registry:

```shell
docker build -t <your container registry>/<your container registry namespace>/joke-manifest-bundle:<tag> -f bundle.Dockerfile .
docker push <your container registry>/<your container registry namespace>/joke-manifest-bundle:<tag>
```

3. Make your operator available within a Catalog

> OLM uses catalogs to discover and install Operators and their dependencies. So, a catalog is similar to a repository of operators and its versions that can be installed on a cluster.

Author: changed

So far, we have built the Operator bundle that is ready to be installed on a cluster, but it's not registered in any catalog yet. For doing this, the `olm` tool provides a utility to add new Operator bundle images to an existing catalog by doing:

```shell

> opm index add --bundles $BUNDLE_IMAGE --tag $INDEX_IMAGE --build-tool docker --skip-tls

Author: this line should not be here. Removed.

          
          
opm index add \
    --bundles <your container registry>/<your container registry namespace>/joke-manifest-bundle:<tag> \

>     --tag <catalog container registry>/<catalog container registry namespace>/<catalog name>:<tag> \

Author: I made some adjuntments. Let me know if it looks clearer now.

    --build-tool docker --skip-tls
docker push <catalog container registry>/<catalog container registry namespace>/<catalog name>:<tag>
```

> | If you're using an insecure registry, you'd need to append the argument `--skip-tls` to the `opm index` command.

Author: Changed.

> The `<catalog container registry>/<catalog container registry namespace>/<catalog name>:<tag>` image is the catalog image that must be registered on the cluster. 

Author: I made some adjustments. Let me know if it's clearer now.

If you want to register a custom catalog, you can create it and configure it with the catalog image by doing the next command:

```shell
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: CatalogSource
metadata:
  name: joke-operator
  namespace: operators
spec:
  sourceType: grpc
  image: <catalog container registry>/<catalog container registry namespace>/<catalog name>:<tag>
EOF
```

Once the catalog is installed, you should see the catalog pod up and running:

```shell
kubectl get pods -n operators --selector=olm.catalogSource=joke-operator
```

4. Install your operator via OLM

OLM deploys operators via [subscriptions](https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/tasks/install-operator-with-olm/#install-your-operator). Creating a  `Subscription` will trigger the operator deployment. You can simply create the `Subscription` resource that contains the operator name and channel to install by running the following command:

```shell
cat <<EOF | kubectl create -f -
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  name: joke-subscription

>   namespace: <your namespace>

Author: Updated

spec:
  channel: alpha
  name: joke
  source: joke-operator

>   sourceNamespace: operators

Author: Updated

EOF
```

Once the subscription is created, you should see your operator pod up and running:

```shell
kubectl get csv -n operators jokerequestreconciler
```

Also, this example needs the `Joke` CRD to be installed on the cluster:

```shell

> kubectl apply -f src/main/k8s/jokes.samples.javaoperatorsdk.io-v1.yml -n <your namespace>

Author: Changed

- Connect to your cluster of choice using `kubectl/oc`, select the appropriate namespace/project.
  The operator will automatically connect to that cluster/namespace combination when started.
- Run `mvn install` on the parent directory to build the project locally. This will automatically generate several resources for
  you, in particular the CRDs associated with the custom resources we will be dealing with. These

>   CRDs are generated in `target/manifests/` and come in `v1` version which correspond to the versions of the CRD spec. We recommend you use

Reviewer: Is there no way to generate everything in only one directory, e.g. `target/kubernetes`? Or does it make it more difficult to process the files needed to generate the bundle?

Author: If we generate everything in only one directory, we could not easily select the files that will be bundled. Also, the `manifests` folder is a convention of OLM. 
Finally, I would like to improve this to not generate the folder `manifests`, but to generate `bundle/manifests`, `bundle/metadata` and `bundle/bundle.Dockerfile`, so we won't need this step any longer: https://github.com/quarkiverse/quarkus-operator-sdk/pull/238/files#diff-7482aed8473830546fbd8ac45b5cc158781d08fcd8682410d7dd32246f84a881R77

So far, we have already built the Operator bundle image at `$JOKE_BUNDLE_IMAGE` (see above) and next, we need to add this Operator bundle image into our catalog. For doing this, we'll use the `olm` tool as follows:

```shell
CATALOG_IMAGE=<catalog container registry>/<catalog container registry namespace>/<catalog name>:<tag>
opm index add \
    --bundles $JOKE_BUNDLE_IMAGE \
    --tag $CATALOG_IMAGE \
    --build-tool docker
docker push $CATALOG_IMAGE
```

For example, if our catalog name is `joke-catalog`, our container registry for the catalog is `quay.io`, our Quay user is `myuser` and the container tag we're releasing is `59.0`, the final `CATALOG_IMAGE` property would be `quay.io/myuser/joke-catalog:59.0`.

---
**NOTE**
If you're using an insecure registry, you'd need to append the argument `--skip-tls` to the `opm index` command.
---

> Once we have our catalog image built and pushed at `$CATALOG_IMAGE` image, we need to install it on our cluster using the `CatalogSource` resource by doing the next command:

Reviewer: It's quite weird to need to create an image to create a catalog source but I guess there are reasons for this… 🤷🏼

Author: Maybe we can enhance this process in a later pull request.

EOF
```

Once the catalog is installed, you should see the catalog pod up and running:

```shell
kubectl get pods -n operators --selector=olm.catalogSource=joke-operator
```

4. Install your operator via OLM

OLM deploys operators via [subscriptions](https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/tasks/install-operator-with-olm/#install-your-operator). You can simply create the `Subscription` resource that contains the operator name and channel to install by running the following command:

```shell
cat <<EOF | kubectl create -f -
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  name: joke-subscription
  namespace: <your namespace>
spec:
  channel: alpha
  name: joke
  source: joke-operator
  sourceNamespace: operators
EOF
```

Once the subscription is installed, you should see your operator pod up and running:

```shell
kubectl get csv -n operators jokerequestreconciler
```

Also, this example needs the `Joke` CRD to be installed on the cluster:

```shell
kubectl apply -f classes/META-INF/fabric8/jokes.samples.javaoperatorsdk.io-v1.yml -n <your namespace>
```

5. Test your operator

> Deploy the test request (or your own): `kubectl apply -n <your namespace> -f src/main/resources/jokerequest.yml` and,
> if everything went well, a `Joke` resource named after the `id` of the joke retrieved from the API will be
>   created on your cluster: `kubectl get jokes -n <your namespace>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As mentioned at the beginning of this document, the idea is that you create `JokeRequest` Custom Resources in the cluster. Let's now test if we can do it via the operator that we have just deployed. This can be achieved by running the `kubectl apply -n <your namespace> -f src/main/resources/jokerequest.yml` command. Make sure you change the file to apply with your own.
If everything went well, a `JokeRequest` resource named after the `id` of the joke retrieved from the API will be created on your cluster, you can check it with the `kubectl get jokes -n <your namespace>` command.
 
```

Reviewer 2: I propose this wording that makes things clearer for me. At the moment where I'm doing this review I'm a little bit confusing about the `Joke` and `JokeRequest` so the wording might be wrong. From what I have understood, the operator should create custom resources of type `JokeRequest`, the `Joke` resources are also created but as a dependency, I mean the `Joke` resource are not the inputs to the operator. Could you please confirm this @metacosm @Sgitario ?

Author: No, the JokeRequest resource is the request from users. They need to create it by doing the `kubectl create -f ...`. The operator will create the Joke resource with the response of the user request.

    --channels <The list of channels that bundle image belongs to> \
    --default <The default channel for the bundle image>
```
 
For example, if we want to name the package `joke` and use the `alpha` channels, the command would look like as `opm alpha bundle generate --directory target/manifests --package joke --channels alpha --default alpha`.

---
**NOTE**
Find more information about channels and packages in [this link](https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/best-practices/channel-naming/#channels).
---

The above command will generate a `bundle.Dockerfile` Dockerfile file that you will use to build and push the final Operator Bundle image to your container registry:

```shell
JOKE_BUNDLE_IMAGE=<your container registry>/<your container registry namespace>/joke-manifest-bundle:<tag>
docker build -t $JOKE_BUNDLE_IMAGE -f bundle.Dockerfile .
docker push $JOKE_BUNDLE_IMAGE
```

> For example, if our container registry is `quay.io`, our Quay user is `myuser` and the tag we're releasing is `1.0`, the final `JOKE_BUNDLE_IMAGE` property would be `quay.io/myuser/joke-manifest-bundle:1.0`. 

Author: Updated
